SCOP8 is a code that to calculate the state of equilibrium of a crystal at a given temperature and
pressure solely from the set of force constants parameters of the high-symmetry phase. It outputs
the optimized lattice structure, phonon dispersions and several thermodynamics quantities at given
temperature.

The scop8 code can be download as a zip file on our github page ALATDYN, folder 'SCOP8'.

To install and use the code in Windows, simply follow the steps written in SCOP8 > docs > README.md
If done correctly, the setups can also let you run FOCEX and other part of ALATDYN packages in Windows.
For Linux environment, you just need to do step 5 and ignore the rest. The Makefile is provided so
the code can be simply compiled by typing 'make' if step 5 is done correctly.

Now to run SCOP8, you need 9 or 10 files (depends on the choice). 
The first five files: lat_fc.dat, fc2.dat, fc3.dat, fc4.dat, structure.params should be generated
from running FOCEX beforehand, they're raw input and should be left as it is.

The control.params is main 'control file' with several options. The first line is whether to
start with random value for variational parameter strain tensor and atomic displacements. 
The second line is to choose whether to inherit previous running result. If set to 'True', this
means that this run will start with variational parameters values from the file 'targetInitialize.dat'.
So be sure to have this file in current path while turning this option on. Notice that the file
'targetInitialize.dat' itself is also the OUTPUT of SCOP8.
The third line is whether to include pressure factor, the stress tensor matrix can be customized
through line 12 to line 14.
The fourth line is whether to force acoustic sum rule in effective force constants K, after each 
Broyden iteration. This option should be left off since acoustic sum rule should be automatically
preserved in K given proper input fc2, fc3 and fc4 values.
The fifth line is whether to use high temperature approximation when dealing with soft 
modes. If this is turned on, the default strategy of manually shifting all negative eigenvalues up
will be skipped, instead the high temperature limit will be employed for and only for negative 
eigenvalues.
The sixth to eighth line only matters if you set the first line true. If this is the case, then 
the sixth, seventh, eighth line are the seed, range and center to generate random number. 
The nineth line and tenth line are for loop control, they are max iteration number and pmix value.
Notice that pmix value should always be negative.
The 11th line is temperature in Kelvin decided by user.
The 15th and 16th line are for freeze or release certain variational parameters. 15th line defines
how many variational parameters you want to freeze or release. If it's a positive number X, it means
X variational parameters in total will be fixed. If it's a negative number -X, it means X variational
parameters in total will be freed. 16th line should list of all the indexes of these X variational
parameters. The index is also the line number in file 'targetInitialize.dat', so it's very easy to
modify and compare.

The dielectric.params contains dielectric and born charge values, these should be treated as raw 
data just like the lat_fc.dat, etc. There is usually no need to change the values.

The kpbs.params file define the q-point path for band dispersion plot. The first line can be set to
0 or 1 where 0 means conventional lattice and 1 means primitive lattice. The second line is the number
of k points along each direction and the third line is the number of directions for the band plot.
The following lines should be input with format of special q point label(G, K, L, X, etc) followed by
its 3d coordinates.

The params.phon is another control file but mostly deprecated. The only really active line is the first
line which defines the size of k point mesh.

Come to output files, most of them can be ignored as checking or logging related, or simply legacy
output that should be deprecated. 

convergence.dat keeps record of  free energy value and L1 norm of all gradients at each iteration

Dispersion.dat, dos_gauss.dat, dos_tet.dat, dos2_tet.dat are for plotting the corresponding 
quantities as the file name implies.

eigenvalues.dat usually will print nothing unless there are negative eigenvalues a.k.a soft modes,
it will record the minimum eigenvalues if it is negative at each iteration.

GradientF.dat is the history of every variational parameter values and its free energy gradients
values at every iteration, the FinalGradientF.dat is just these of the last iteration for convenience,
since GradientF.dat is usually a large file with too many iterations.

targetInitialize.dat, as explained previously, is the main output file that lists final values for
all the variational parameters. It also serves as a customizable input file if user choose to set
the 2nd line of control.params to True.

Most runtime information can either be found in logfile.txt or output.txt, the latter could be a
large file with too many iterations.

Some thermodynamics properties of interest might be printed out in result.txt, but it's still under
modification and not in its final format.
